• 3 million Italians, mostly Southern Italian peasants, immigrated to the US in the first 15 years of the 20th century.
• Many settled in Northeastern American cities – New York, Philadelphia, Boston, etc.
• Southern Italian cuisine makes heavy use of tomato sauce, cheese, and pastas.
• Traditional tomato sauce was very simple. Tomato puree, fresh basil, and a little garlic. (longer cooking 'sunday sauces' aka rraù/ragù are more complex and richly seasoned).
• As children of immigrants get further separated from their original culture and recipes (after a generation or two) it's possible that their memory clings to certain ingredients and amplifies them. This could explain the heavy use of garlic and oregano in Italian American dishes.
[https://www.quora.com/Why-do-Americans-think-that-an-Italian-recipe-apparently-Italian-should-have-a-lot-of-garlic-onion-and-oregano]
• The Southern Italian languages these immigrants spoke (such as Napulitano and Siciliano) tend to schwa or drop unstressed vowels, and soften hard consonants. This is why Italian Americans pronounce words like Ricotta, Capocollo, and Pasta e Fagioli  like rigutt, gabbagool, and pasta fazhool
• Today, at the height of foodies' obsession with "authenticity," Italian-American food has become stigmatized and criticized for not sticking to its roots. Along with the criticizm comes a misplaced criticism of southern italian cuisine – conflating the "sophisticated" northern variants of dishes like lasagne and ragù as being the authentic Italian ones.

https://www.huffpost.com/entry/italian-american-food_n_5b364d53e4b08c3a8f69c37c
"It all started when the first Italian immigrants came to America and couldn’t cook their favorite dishes because certain ingredients were either missing or simply didn’t taste the same. Italians who went into the restaurant business found that they could be more creative than they could in their homeland. Native Italians resist changes to their traditional dishes, but in America, those restrictions were lifted and chefs could flex their creative muscles ... think pasta tetrazzini created at the turn of the 20th century in America and named after the Italian opera singer. That ‘Italian’ dish never existed in Italy."


https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2014/11/the-secret-life-of-string-cheese/383001/


• Sargento was the first brand to produce packaged shredded cheese in 1958
    https://books.google.com/books?id=Ckx-w7yuvTUC&pg=PT483&dq=sargento+cheese&hl=en&sa=X&ei=hS8NUYuDLM2n0AHkk4GADg&ved=0CDYQ6AEwAQ#v=onepage&q=sargento%20cheese&f=false


3 million Italians immigrated to the US around the turn of the century.
About half of them ended up staying and starting families, becoming Italian Americans.
Somewhere along the way Italian food and Italian American cuisines diverged. 
Whether Americans were able to adopt new ingredients and techniques from their new homeland, combined and adapted traditions from the various Southern Italian regions they came from, or whether the Italians back home evolved and modernized their cuisine in new ways is unclear. Possibly all at the same time.
I want to show a living example of this through two Eggplant Parmigiana recipes that are similar in their preparation, but wildly different in flavor.




Recipes

take some aubergines that are not so thick, peel them, cut them into slices about the thickness of a little more than a two-penny coin, then put them under a press so that they drain well. After a couple of hours, salt them in flour, brown them and fry them. Once this is done, put in a pan a couple of tablespoons of tomato sauce, made like the one to season macaroni (see above) and on top of this a layer of aubergines. On top of these put parmesan and then more sauce, other eggplants and more parmesan and so on until you have aubergines. Then cook with fire below and above for no more than half an hour, and serve.

La Nuova Cucina delle Specialità Regioni, 139


Crush tomatoes with the hands and boil with a little onion 


Peel 7 or 9 eggplants, cut into thin round slices and salt them to draw out some of their water. After letting them sit for a few hours, dredge them in flour and fry in oil.
Take an ovenproof platter and layer the slices of eggplant with grated parmesan cheese and the tomato sauce from recipe 125, arranging them so that they form a nice mound. Beat an egg with a pinch of salt, one tablespoon of the same tomato sauce, one teaspoon of grated parmesan, and two teaspoons of bread crumbs, and cover the surface of the mound with this mixture. Place the platter under the lid of a dutch oven with fire above, and when the egg mixture has hardened, serve. This dish can be served by itself, as an entremets, or accompanied by a meat dish.
The purpose of the egg covering is to give the dish a nicer appearance.

Science in the Kitchen and the Art of Eating Well, Artusi, 555


Salsa di pomodoro

Prepare a battuto with a quarter of an onion, a clove of garlic, a finger-length stalk of celery, a few basil leaves, and a sufficient amount of parsley. Season with a little olive oil, salt and pepper.
Mash 7 or 8 tomatoes and put everything on the fire, stirring occasionally. Once you see the sauce thickening to the consistency of a runny cream, pass it through a sieve and it is ready to use.

Science in the Kitchen and the Art of Eating Well, Artusi, 286