Seonkyoung

ingredients
For the Sauce

    1 Tbsp gochujang, Korean red pepper paste
    1 Tbsp soy sauce
    1 Tbsp mirin
    1 Tbsp sesame oil
    2 Tbsp gochugaru, Korean red pepper flakes
    2 Tbsp apricot jam (you can substitute to any fruit jam/jelly, honey or sugar)
    3 to 5 cloves garlic, chopped (approximately 1 1/2 Tbsp)
    1 serrano chili, chopped
    1 1/2 Tbsp fresh lemon juice
    2 tsp sesame seeds, crushed in between your palms

For Spicy Cold Noodles

    6 ot 8 oz dried naengmyeon noodles
    3 to 4 handfuls green cabbage (add some purple cabbage too if you like!)
    3 to 4 oz carrot, thinly julienne
    3 to 4 oz cucumber, thinly julienne
    1 tsp sesame oil
    1 tsp sesame seeds

Instructions

    Combine all ingredients for sauce in a mixing bowl and set a side. When you add sesame seeds, place on your palm and crush them between your palms for extra nutty flavor! This sauce will last long in a fridge for 2 weeks.
    Cook noodles by following the directions. When they are done cooking, rinse under cold or ice water, rubbing with your hands to cool out completely and get rid of excess starch. This way, the noodles will have more elastic and chewy texture!
    Drain completely, place in a large mixing bowl along with all vegetables and sauce. Mix well with your hand. Make sure wearing plastic glove, other wise the spicy smell and burn will stay on your finger tips! That’s painful!!
    Transfer to a serving plate and drizzle some sesame oil and sesame seeds! Top it up with halved hard boiled eggs and you are done! Enjoy!




My Korean Kitchen

Ingredients
MAIN

    350 g dried naengmyeon noodles (Korean buckwheat noodles)
    150 g beef brisket (*see note above)
    5 cups water (*see note above)
    50 g Korean radish (or daikon, pink radish), thinly sliced or julienned
    50 g Asian pear ( or Bosc pear) thinly sliced or julienned
    60 g English cucumber (seeds removed, thinly sliced or julienned)
    1 hard boiled egg (halved)
    1 Tbsp toasted sesame seeds
    1 dashA dash of roasted sesame seeds toasted sesame seeds

BIBIM SAUCE

    20 g Asian pear
    20 g brown onion
    1/4 cup reserved beef broth (or water) from step 1 below (*see note above)
    3 Tbsp Korean chili flakes (gochugaru)
    2 Tbsp raw sugar
    1 Tbsp toasted sesame seeds
    1 Tbsp Korean chilli paste (gochujang)
    1 Tbsp soy sauce
    1 Tbsp apple cider vinegar
    1 Tbsp minced garlic
    1 tsp sesame oil
    1 tsp fine sea salt

RADISH PICKLE SAUCE (MIX THESE TOGETHER AND MICROWAVE IT FOR 30 TO 40 SECONDS TO MELT THE SUGAR)

    2 Tbsp white sugar
    3 Tbsp apple cider vinegar
    2 Tbsp water

Instructions

    Soak the brisket in a bowl of water and set aside for 20 mins to draw the blood out. Drain the water. Add the water (5 cups) and the brisket into a medium to large pot, cover with the lid and boil them over high heat. Skim off any scum that forms. Once the water starts to rolling boil, reduce the heat to low-medium. Simmer until the brisket is tender and cooked (I boiled them for 1 hour total. This should result in about 3 cups of broth.) Take out the meat onto a plate. Cool down the meat and the broth for 30 mins. Cut off any stringy fats and thinly slice the brisket.
    Soak the radish in the radish pickle sauce. Set aside until the radish is softened (about 20 mins). Cover and refrigerate until you need them. FYI, the longer you pickle, the less bitter the radish becomes.
    Combine all the bibim sauce ingredients and blend until pureed. Cover and refrigerate until needed.
    Cook the noodles in boiling water until soften (about 2 to 3 mins). Stir often during boiling. The noodle texture should be chewy and bouncy. Drain the water and rinse the noodles under cold running water a couple of times to cool down. Drain the water quickly and divide the noodle portion for serving. Place the mound of noodles into a serving bowl.
    Place the sliced beef, radish pickles, cucumber, pear and boiled egg on top of the noodles. Add the bibim sauce on top. Drizzle some sesame oil and sparingly sprinkle roasted sesame seeds. (Refer above pictures for decoration ideas.) Serve immediately.




Julie Yoon

Go Back
Recipe Image

Spicy Cold Buckwheat Noodles (Bibim Naengmyeon : 비빔냉면)
Nothing is more refreshing than a chilled bowl of Bibim Naengmyeon, or Korean buckwheat noodles with spicy sauce and toppings. When its hot outside, this dish is pretty hard to beat.
Servings: 4
Author: Chef Julie Yoon

Ingredients

    1 16 oz package of dried Naeng Myeon noodles (Korean buckwheat noodles)
    1 lb. beef brisket, you can keep this dish vegetarian and omit beef
    2 hard boiled eggs
    ½ of an English Cucumber cut into matchsticks
    ½ of an Asian Pear cut into matchsticks
    Sesame oil for drizzling
    Toasted sesame seeds for garnish

Quick Pickled Radish:

    8 ounces Korean radish peeled, halved, and sliced very thinly into half moons
    2 tablespoons white distilled vinegar
    3 tablespoons sugar
    2 teaspoons kosher salt

Spicy Bibim Sauce :

    ½ of a small onion roughly chopped
    1 teaspoon minced garlic
    2 tablespoons Gochujang Korean red pepper paste
    1 tablespoon white distilled vinegar
    2 tablespoons sugar
    3 tablespoons Gochugaru Korean red pepper powder
    1 teaspoon Kosher salt
    About ½ cup of reserved cooled beef broth or water

Instructions
*NOTE: Although you can make everything in this recipe in 1 day, It’s best to cook the beef and make the sauce the day before. Not only does the beef take a couple hours to cook, but you can use the resulting chilled broth to make the sauce more flavorful. Likewise, the sauce tastes better made the day before, because the flavors have more time to meld together as it sits in the fridge.

    In a bowl, soak the beef in cold water for about 20 minutes to draw out the blood, then drain. In a medium pot, add enough water to cover the beef. Over high heat, bring to a boil. Skim off any scum that forms. Lower the heat to medium low and simmer covered for about 1 ½- 2 hours, or until tender. Add more water as needed. Remove beef from water and let it cool. Set aside in the refrigerator and save reserved broth in a separate container. Remove any fat that forms. This is easier to do when the broth is chilled.
    In a blender, purée the ingredients for the sauce until smooth. Set aside the mixture, cover, and refrigerate until ready to use. If you can’t prepare this sauce the day before, place in the refrigerator for about an hour or two before serving to give the ingredients a chance to meld.
    In a medium bowl, whisk together the pickling ingredients for the radish (salt, sugar, and vinegar). Add the slices of radish, toss to coat, and set aside for 20 minutes to wilt. Make sure to toss the radish in the liquid occasionally. Rinse with water, and squeeze gently to remove excess moisture. Set aside.
    Cook the noodles only when you’re ready to serve. In a large pot, bring water to a boil. Cook the noodles for about 2-3 minutes, until soft, but slightly chewy and elastic. Drain and rinse with cold water well. Hold the noodles in your hands and rub them under the running water, as if you’re doing the laundry by hand. Divide the noodles into 4 piles. It’s okay for the noodles not to be well drained. This will help to thin out the sauce slightly, making it easier to mix with the sauce in the bowl.
    Cut the beef along the grain in very thin slices. Cut hard boiled egg in half lengthwise. Place a mound of noodles in the center of the bowl. Place a pile of pickled radish on one side of the noodles. Next to the radish, fan the sliced beef, and next to the beef, add the julienned pear and cucumber. Leave a space to spoon some of the bibim sauce on top of the noodles. Drizzle with some sesame oil (especially over the beef), and sprinkle with sesame seeds. Add half of a hardboiled egg in the center. Serve immediately. 

TIP: Use kitchen scissors to cut through the noodles a couple of times to make them easier to mix and eat.





Korean Kitchen

150g Naengmyeon Noodles
	1/2 Cucumber
	1 Carrot
	1 Egg
	10 Ice Cubes
	
FOR THE SAUCE
	3 Tbsp Gochujang
	2 Tsp Gochugaru
	3 Tsp Sesame Oil
	1 Tsp Crushed Garlic
	3 Tbsp Sugar
	1 Tsp Soy Sauce
	4 Tbsp Water
	2 Tsp Sesame Seeds




Hard boil the egg in a pan of boiling water for approximately 10 minutes.
2
Done
	

Fill a large pan with water and bring to the boil. Add the noodles to the boiling water and cook for about 5 minutes. Test a single noodle to make sure it is the right consistency. It should be chewy but not hard in the middle.

* It's best to use a large pan to cook these noodles as their high starch content do make them prone to stick to each other.
3
Done
	

When the noodles are cooked, drain them and rinse 2 to 3 times in cold water until the water turns clear. Pop the noodles into a bowl and chill in the fridge for 30 minutes.
4
Done
	

Slice the cucumber and carrots into thin julienne strips. Once hard boiled, peel and slice the egg in half.
5
Done
	

In a bowl combine all ingredients for the sauce and mix well. The sauce should be fairly thick but still runny. Add a little more water to thin it down a little if this isn't the case.
6
Done
	

Split everything between 2 serving bowls. Start by placing the noodles first with the cucumber, carrot and egg on top. Finally cover everything with the sauce and add the ice cubes.
7
Done
	

Mix everything well with the sauce and enjoy!




maangchi


    2 servings of dried naengmyeon noodles
    1 package of broth base that comes with the noodles
    1 Korean pear (or 2 bosc pears)
    1 English cucumber, cut into thin strips about 4 inch long
    1 hard boiled egg, shelled, cut into halves
    ¼ cup toasted sesame seeds, ground
    2 garlic cloves
    ½ teaspoon ginger
    2 tablespoons worth of onion
    2 green onions, chopped
    ¼ cup hot pepper flakes
    2 tablespoons hot pepper paste
    1 tablespoon soy sauce
    1 teaspoon kosher salt
    3 teaspoons sugar
    ¼ cup rice syrup
    2 tablespoons white vinegar
    2 teaspoons toasted sesame oil
    ice cubes


Prepare the broth

    Mix the broth base with 2 cups of water in a bowl. Freeze for 2 to 3 hours until it turns slushy. If you can’t make the broth in advance, mix the broth base with 1 cup of cold water and 10 to 12 ice cubes and keep it in the freezer while you prepare the rest of the ingredients.

Prepare the garnishes

    Mix 1 cup of cold water with 1 teaspoon sugar in a bowl, to make sugar water.
    Peel the pear and cut it into halves. Remove the cores. Reserve one half of the pear for the spicy sauce, and cut the other half into thin matchsticks for a garnish. Soak the matchsticks in the sugar water so they won’t go brown.
    Cut the cucumber into thin matchsticks.cucumber shredded

Make the spicy sauce

    Put the half pear, garlic, ginger, onion, green onions, hot pepper flakes, hot pepper paste, soy sauce, kosher salt, sugar, rice syrup, vinegar, and toasted sesame oil in a food processor and grind until creamy.mix spicy sauce
    Transfer the sauce to a bowl and refrigerate until ready to use.

Prepare the noodles

    Bring a large pot of water to a boil. Add the noodles and stir with a wooden spoon. Cover and let them cook for 3 to 5 minutes. Take a sample to taste. When you chew the noodles, there shouldn’t be any hard stuff at all. If there is, cook them 1 minute longer.
    Strain the noodles and rinse in cold running water. Rub the noodles with both hands and scrub them to remove any excess starch. The noodles should get chewy and cold.rinsing-naengmyeon
    For your last rinse, fill a large bowl with cold water and some ice cubes. Rinse the noodles well in the icy water. Drain and divide them into 2 large shallow serving bowls.naengmyeon noodles

Make bibim-naengmyeon

    Take the icy broth out of the freezer and pour some into each serving bowl.
    Put some spicy sauce over the noodles.spicy sauce
    Place the pear, and cucumber on top of the noodles.
    Sprinkle a heap of sesame seeds powder over top.sesame seeds
    Add a half egg to the top of each bowl.bibim-naengmyeon
    Serve right away. Mix it up before you dig in!

