
http://www.recettesafricaine.com/recette-ndole.html

1kg of smoked meat and / or fish,
    ½ l of oil,
    4 onions,
    300g of peanut paste,
    2kg of ndole leaf,
    150g of dried shrimps,
    3 cloves of garlic,
    Red pepper,
    Maggi cubes,
    salt,

Preparation:

Bring salted water to a boil, cut up and wash the ndole leaves.

Put them in boiling water and cook them quickly, uncovered, for about 45 minutes with a piece of rock salt.

Rinse and drain in a colander.

Squeeze the leaves to remove water, put them on a plate forming balls with the leaves.

In a saucepan, put the peanuts (raw) with water and cook for about 5 minutes, after boiling, remove them from the heat, drain them and crush them with all the condiments (onions, garlic, finely chili) and put the preparation aside.

Heat some oil and sear the pieces of meat with finely chopped onions.

Mix for a few minutes and stir until golden brown.

Then add the garlic, chili, onion, mashed shrimp and then the peanut paste. Add ½ liter of water and cook the meat for about 1h30mn.

Cook over low heat for 15 minutes.

Then add the ndolé delicately in rain in the pot.

As soon as the ndolé is well diluted in the sauce, add water.



http://toimoietcuisine.com/recette/recette-du-ndole-viande-morue-et-crevettes/

700 gr of ndolè leaves, cut and washed
    750 gr of beef cut into large cubes
    3 smoked cod, cleaned, cut and soaked from the day before
    350 gr of peanuts without pulp soaked in 3l of water the day before. You will get about 600 gr of waterlogged peanuts the next day
    250gr of fresh cleaned shrimps
    50 gr of crushed dried shrimps
    1 large leek, roughly chopped
    2 onions, roughly chopped
    1 chopped onion
    7 cloves of garlic
    1 Tbsp of ginger
    200 ml vegetable oil
    800 ml of water
    Salt and ground white pepper

Method
Step 1

Salt, pepper and brown the meat on both sides in a large saucepan over medium high heat, then add 1/4 of coarsely chopped onions, stir and let sweat
2nd step

Then add half the water, cover and bring the meat halfway through cooking. It took me 20 minutes with the pressure cooker
Step: 3

In the meantime, pour the peanuts, the rest of the large onions, the leek, the garlic, the ginger and the remaining half of the water into a blender, then mix until you obtain a slightly grainy paste.
Step: 4

Once the meat is halfway through cooking, add the paste as well as the cod and the dried shrimp and stir well, then salt enough (because of the ndolè) and mix well
Step: 5

Slightly close the lid of the pan and cook peanuts + meat for about 30 minutes. Tip: Stir from the bottom every now and then to prevent it sticking and burning at the bottom.
Step: 6

Add the ndolè to the peanuts, mix by rubbing the bottom of the pan and simmer for about 15 minutes
Step: 7

Heat the oil in a pan, and brown the chopped onion until it becomes translucent. Then add the fresh prawns previously salted and peppered, simmer 1 minute, stir and cook for another 1 minute
Step: 8

Pour the shrimp / onion into the ndolè, cover and let stand off the heat for 5 minutes and your sauce is ready.
Recipe type: Sauce Keywords: Cameroonian cuisine, ndole, African recipes, sauce Ingredients: garlic, peanuts, shrimps, prawns, vegetable oil, cod, ndolè, Onion, salt, beef meat


https://www.editions2015.com/cameroun/index.php/la-cuisine-camerounaise/les-plats/ndole/

3 boules de ndolé
300g d’arachides crues (émondées)
600g de crevettes
100g de poisson fumé
oignons
50g de gingembre
1 tomate
piments
huile d’arachides
huile de palme rouge
cubes d'assaisonnement Maggi
eau


Detach the ndolé leaves from the branches
Put a large pot on the fire with water and rock salt
Using a spatula, put the leaves in the water that has boiled for 10 minutes
When they are cooked, rinse the leaves by putting them in a basin of cold water
Drain by pressing the leaves to make balls
Taste and repeat the whole operation until there is just a bit of bitterness
Meatballs are ready to cook or packaged for brief storage
 
Preparation of Ndolé

 
Put the peanuts in a saucepan, add water and cook for about 5 minutes after boiling. Remove from heat
Drain the peanuts, mash them into a puree. Peel and wash the onions, cut them finely
Crush 3/4 of the onions with the ginger, chilli and tomato. Prepare the smoked fish and cut it
Brown the tomato and the crushed ingredients in the oil for 5 minutes
Add the peanuts, mix gently and bring to a boil while stirring to prevent it sticking to the bottom of the pan
Then put the ndole leaves one by one, stirring between each addition
Season with the Maggi, add the prawns and the fish. Cook over very low heat for 15 minutes
Turn from time to time. In a pan, blanch the palm oil, sauté the rest of the onions and pour this oil over the ndolé, mix.
Serve with plantain, cassava stick, rice, macabo




2 kg de feuilles de Ndolé
Viande 1 kg de viande ou ou de poisson fumé,
Huile 0,5 l d'huile
Pâte d'arachide 300 g de pâte d'arachides
crevette 150 g de crevettes séchées,
Oignon 150 g d'oignons
20 g de sel gemme ou halite
Ail 3 gousses d'ail
Piment rouge 1 piment rouge
Eau 1 eau 


Cook pieces of meat (like stewing meat) in salted water or vegetable broth until tender (about 1 hour), while waiting you can prepare the rest!

Take the N'dolé leaves (1 bunch) and boil them in a large quantity of water with the addition of rock salt (ask for natron, salt from Lake Natron), stir for about 30 minutes of cooking but cover between them. stirring!

Remove the leaves and wash them in water several times and carefully drain by pressing between your fingers.

Shell a large plate of fresh peanuts, soak them for two hours in water then crush them very finely in a mill or with a pestle (the mixer is not bad either!).

Take the balls of drained leaves and chop them very finely with a knife into thin slices, small pieces, finally chopped finely!

Mix the crushed spices (crushed tomato, a little tomato puree, crushed garlic, minced onion, crushed chili and basil, salt and maggi cube)

In a large pot, heat the peanut oil very hard and add all the previously prepared spices, stir for a few minutes, then finally about 1/2 liter of water, then again a little later half a liter of water. water, then the crushed peanuts and a little more depending on the consistency of the mixture which must be very liquid.

Add the cooked meat, or the fresh or smoked fish, fresh or smoked shrimp, uncooked and heat stewed for 30 minutes.

Then add the crushed N'dolé leaves and mix until a smooth paste is obtained.

Simmer and stir regularly so as not to burn for about 20 minutes until the mixture thickens as the water evaporates.

Add Maggi cube at the last moment if necessary.

A Before serving, heat some peanut oil and fry the chopped onion in it and pour the mixture over the N'dolé.