9 Shrimp, or 6 Scampi
1 Handful Cherry Tomatoes, halved
300g Spaghetti
125ml of white wine
6 Cloves Garlic, peeled
45ml Extra Virgin Olive Oil
2 Chili Peppers
1 Handful Parsley, chopped



Slice Garlic
Slice Chili
Slice Tomatoes
Chop Parsley
Peel 6 Shrimp
Reserve heads
Devein and butterfly
leave 3 whole

Sauté pan
Olive oil
Add Garlic
Add chili pepper
Add shrimp heads
Sauté 5min
Add wine
Simmer for 10min
Boil water for linguine
Subscribe

Frying pan
Oil
Garlic
whole shrimp
Add peeled shrimp after a minute

Strain broth into bowl
Return to pan
Add tomatoes
season with salt 

Remove pasta to sauté pan
Add shrimp
Sauté for 2 more minutes
Add parsley
Mix and serve

9 Shrimp, or 6 Scampi
1 Handful Cherry Tomatoes, halved
200g Spaghetti
125ml of white wine
6 Cloves Garlic, peeled
45ml Extra Virgin Olive Oil
2 Chili Peppers
1 Handful Parsley, chopped


To make the shrimp sauce that will be the flavor-base of our dish, start by adding 2Tbsp of Olive Oil to a sauté pan over medium high heat.
Once the oil shimmers, add 3 cloves of peeled garlic, with the central germ removed. This will avoid the bitter flavor it lends. Along with the garlic, add one or two sliced chili peppers.
Sauté until fragrant, then add the heads of 6 shrimp. Let those get some color, and they'll begin to leech out a reddish color into the oil. This is the main source of the flavor and will lend a fresh seafood quality to our pasta.
Add 125ml of white wine, bring to a simmer, and simmer for 5 minutes to cook off the harsh alcohol notes.
Strain out the shells, garlic, and chilis, reserving the sauce.

Bring 2 liters of water to a rolling boil in a large pot. Season with 2tsp of salt, and add 200g of spaghetti or linguine. Boil until al dente.

While the pasta is cooking, add a tablespoon of olive oil to a frying pan, and when shimmering, add 3 cloves of peeled and de-germed garlic. Once fragrant, add three whole shrimp and fry until they start to change color on both sides. Once that happens, add 6 peeled and butterflied shrimp. Continue to cook until the peeled shrimp change color, then remove from the pan.

Back to our sauté pan, add the shrimp sauce we made, along with a handful of halved cherry tomatoes. Add about 75ml of pasta water, and an optional extra splash of white wine, to brigten things up. Season with salt, and simmer until the tomatoes start to break down.
Add the spaghetti to the sauce, add the peeled shrimp and a handful of chopped parsley. Mix well, then serve in a dish, topped with a whole shrimp.




Traditional Italian Shrimp Pasta Recipe - Spaghetti ai Gamberi

Shrimp Scampi may be the most well known shrimp pasta dish, but it's not the original. Spaghetti ai Gamberi, a twist on Linguine agli Scampi, is a traditional Italian pasta that packs in fresh seafood flavor brightened by cherry tomatoes and white wine. Join me as I show you one of my favorite easy yet impressive pasta dishes.

Full Recipe: https://www.kevinallover.com/articles/93

Ingredients for 3 servings:

• 9 Shrimp, or 6 Scampi
• 1 Handful Cherry Tomatoes, halved
• 200g Spaghetti
• 125ml of white wine
• 6 Cloves Garlic, peeled
• 45ml Extra Virgin Olive Oil
• 2 Chili Peppers
• 1 Handful Parsley, chopped

My Gear:
• Wusthof 8in Chefs Knife: https://amzn.to/2JRzycV
• All Clad 3Qt Saute Pan: https://amzn.to/3gAe7sX
• All Clad 8in Fry Pan: https://amzn.to/3h0ksxJ
• Staub Dutch Oven: https://amzn.to/3fQcx5H
• Oxo 16in Tongs: https://amzn.to/2LwGIUz

Support This Channel with Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/kevinallover
Instagram: https://instagram.com/kevinallovertheworld