MISE

Grind Cumin
Slice Onions
Cube Lamb
Season Half with
	Salt
	Pepper
	Coriander
	Cumin
	Chili Powder
Grind Lamb
Knead
Roll into balls
Cube Lamb
Cover with Water
2hrs
Drain water
Grind Cumin
Season with
Salt
Pepper
Cumin


Lamb Kewap

Grill


Keema Kewap

Toss in hand to firm up
Press on skewer
Grill


INGREDIENTS
1kg Lamb, in 2cm cubes
1/2 Sliced Onion
4tsp Fresh Ground Cumin
4tsp Ground Coriander Seed
2tsp Chili Powder
Salt & Pepper


RECIPE

For the cubed lamb skewers:

Cut 500g of Lamb into 2cm cubes.
Place the lamb in a bowl, and cover with enough cold water so that it's fully submerged.
Set aside for at least an hour, or refrigerate overnight.
Drain the water, which should've absorbed the meat's myoglobin and turned red. Likewise the meat should now be a light pink color.
Season with 2tsp of freshly ground cumin, two pinches of salt, and a few cracks of black pepper.
Mix well and set aside for 30min while you prep the grill.
To prepare the skewers, slide a few pieces on a flat metal skewer, leaving a little space between each cube.
Grill on a charcoal grill without the grate, so the skewers are resting on the rim of the grill like a rotisserie.
Cook until the lamb reaches a safe internal temperature.


For the Keema (mince) skewers:

Cut 500g of Lamb into 2cm cubes.
Place in a bowl with 1/2 a sliced onion. Knead the onion for a few seconds until they soften a little. This will tenderize them, release some of the juices into the meat, and release some of the sulfur compounds which make onions pungent.
Season with 2tsp freshly ground cumin, 2tsp freshly ground coriander seed, 1tsp chili powder, a couple pinches of salt, and a few cracks of black pepper.
Mix well.
Using a food processor, meat grinder, or cleaver, mince the meat into a fine paste. The consistency should be similar to the filling of a dumpling. (For a meat grinder you may need to run the mince through a few times before it reaches this texture)
Knead the mince for a minute to develop some bounce. This will help it stay on the skewer.
Using well oiled hands, roll the mince into 125g balls, then toss back and forth between your hands to tighten them up.
Set aside while you prep the grill.
To prepare the skewers, slide one or two balls of mince onto a flat metal skewer. Using your thumb and index finger, pinch the meat into a long, even log shape.
Grill on a charcoal grill without the grate, so the skewers are resting on the rim of the grill like a rotisserie.
Cook until the lamb reaches a safe internal temperature.
