Welcome back!
Today I wanted to have some fun exploring a fusion of flavors from East and West Africa.
It's a Tomato Peanut Plantain stew with pan seared lamb and fried polenta.

To get started let's get a couple tablespoons of clarified butter melting in a large pot over medium heat
Once it's melted add in a diced onion.
Sauté that for a few minutes until it's transparent, then we'll go in with 60g of ginger garlic paste – that's 30g each of minced garlic and minced ginger.
Sauté that all together until fragrant, then let's add in some east african spices, in the form of coriander seeds, cardamom, and turmeric.
Mix those in well and let them toast a little bit
then we'll add in 60ml of tomato paste
and mix that in as well, so everything's coated
Now let's go in with a kilo of diced tomatoes
cover that up and let it simmer for about 10min until the tomatoes start breaking down and releasing their juices
Now we'll add a few tablespoons of peanut butter. I'm using the natural kind so it's just peanuts and oil, but feel free to use ground peanuts, or even a mass produced peanut butter as long as it isn't too sweet.
Now the peanut butter could fit into a few dishes from east and west africa, but the inspiration here is from a Matoke sauce from east africa.
Mix that in well, and feel free to add some water if it's looking too thick at this point. I put in about 250ml but it's up to you what consistency you want here.
Now season that with salt, and we'll add in 3 chopped green plantains.
This was also inspired by the matoke recipes – which are made using a small banana called a matoke which is bland in flavor – If you can get your hands on those, go ahead, alternatively a cassava would be a nice substitute, but I opted for green plantains which should play nicely with the peanut butter. After all, peanut butter and banana is a classic combo.
Next up we'll be adding a few teaspoons of ground fermented locust beans – aka soumbala, dawadawa, or iru. This is a common west african ingredient and it'll add a robust umami flavor. It can be pretty intense, so if you're not used to it, go easy.
Along with that I'm adding 3 halved habaneros. These ones are fairly mild for habaneros, but put in as many or as few as you want here.
Now let's add a bunch of chopped up greens. I'm using dandelion greens since their bitter flavor will balance out the peanut butter and dawadawa nicely.
Cover that up, bring it to a boil, and let it all cook together for at least 30min so the flavors have a chance to deepen.

While that's going let's turn our attention to the polenta.
This'll be a twist on ugali, pap, nsima, or any other corn flour porridge used as a staple starge in east africa. I like polenta here for its texture and extra corny flavor.
So season a liter of cold water in a saucepan, and add in 200ml of cornmeal. Starting it in cold water will totally remove the possibility of lumps, so this is highly recommended.
Bring that to a light boil, stirring occasionally until it begins to thicken.
Once your spoon leaves a distinct trail in the porridge before settling back into place, 
let's pour it into an oiled up baking sheet 
and let that cool in the fridge until solid.
Once it's cooled, flop your polenta sheet onto a cutting board
and cut it into whatever fancy shape you like. I'm going with right triangles because sharp corners taste good.
Now get a little clarified butter or cooking oil up to temperature over medium high heat in a skillet,
add in the polenta shapes, and fry until crispy on both sides
before removing to a rack to cool

Now, finally for some optional protein, let's season a single lamb rib chop with a generous amount of salt
and sear it in the same skillet for a couple minutes per side, or until the internal temperature reads 60°C for rare meat.

And with that we're ready to plate.