Carbonade Flamande


Hey, welcome back!

Winter is finally starting to settle in, here in Brooklyn,

so I'll be making a hearty beef stew from Belgium called Carbonade Flamande.



To get started I'm going to render out some bacon fat in a dutch oven.

Now, bacon is optional, so if you don't eat pork go ahead and melt 60g of butter

in the pot instead.

As for the bacon, let's get the heat going on medium so the fat has a chance 

to melt before the bacon crisps up.


Once it's looking crispy and your apartment smells like breakfast, let's remove

the bacon, and in that lard that's rendered out we're gonna brown some beef.

Here I have a kilo of bottom round which I'm cutting into 3cm cubes. 

I like this cut because it's a large, uniform piece with good marbling throughout,

and it's relatively cheap — this cost me about 7 dollars.


Now, if you're like me, there's no room in the bottom of your pot for anything else

So once the beef is browned, I'm going to set it aside, along with the juices, so

we can make room to sauté our onions.

I'm going to melt 60g of butter so we have enough fat in the bottom of the pot,

and to it I'll add a sliced up onion. Now, this is a hefty boy, so if you've got

smaller onions go ahead and use two. It's gonna look like a lot of onion, but 

it'll reduce and caramelize as it cooks, so don't worry.


Sauté those guys until they've got some nice color on them from the fond, and

have turned translucent and soft, and now we'll add back in our beef and bacon.


Next I'll add a couple tablespoons of flour and mix that in well. This will serve

to thicken the stew a little bit.

Once it's well mixed, let's add a couple sprigs of thyme, as well as two bay leaves

Season with salt and pepper, mix thoroughly, and we can add the liquid to our stew,

which in this case is a 375ml bottle of beer — belgian of course — i'm using Leffe Brune,

but any hearty belgian ale will work here.


Finally we're going to add a ...unique ingredient in the form of a spiced bread called pain d'epices

literally "spiced bread". It's got a lot of warm spices and has a similar flavor profile to a

jamaican rum cake. 

We're going to cut two slices, spread some mustard on one side, then place the pieces

mustard-side down in the stew.

This is starting to sound like a stoner "what do we have in the pantry" kind of recipe, 

but it's actually kind of ingenious — the bread is going to thicken the stew and season 

it with those spices at the same time. Work smarter, not harder.


Now we can reduce the heat to low, cover it all up and let that stew for 2 1/2 hours, stirring occasionally.


While our stew is stewing, we're gonna make some belgian fries.

I'm gonna cut a potato into 1cm sticks, and I'll soak them in water so they don't oxidize.

When we're ready to fry, go ahead and dry them off and place them in 140 degree — that's 275 fahrenheit — oil

for 6 minutes. We want to gently cook the insides, first, before blasting them with high heat to brown them.

So after 6 minutes, we'll let them cool for about 10min, then throw them back in 180 degree, or 360 fahrenheit

oil for 1-3 minutes until the fries are brown and crispy.