It's almost summer if you're watching this when I'm releasing it, and if it's not, sorry to remind you that it's not.
Anyway, one of my favorite summertime dishes for the ultimate beachside vibes is clams in white wine sauce.
This one's got the welcome addition of some fresh cherry tomatoes and oregano that just screams mediterranean vacation.

To get started throw a sauté pan over medium heat and pour in 30ml of olive oil.
Let that do it's thing and loosen up a bit, then we'll go in with a finely minced shallot.
Everything that goes in the pan is going to be part of the sauce, so I want a fine mince so I get little morsels of shallot inside the clams.
Next up I'll add in a few cloves of minced garlic. This is one dish where the garlic will really shine, so add a bit more than you normally would here.
Along with that, I'm adding in a teaspoon of chili flakes. I like the background heat it lends, but if you're not into that, leave it out.
Saute those together for a couple minutes until the shallots have softened up a little, then I'll add in some cherry tomatoes.
These guys are on the vine for foodporn aesthetics, but the plastic clamshell containers would work just fine.
Cover that up and let it cook for a few minutes so the tomatoes can start to break down.
and in the meantime let's prep our crostini.
This sauce is gonna be real addictive and you're gonna want something to scoop it up with when your clams are done, so slice a good baguette or some rustic bread into long thin slices along a bias.
Brush them with olive oil and throw them in your toaster until they're nice and crispy. 

While we're waiting for that go ahead and click that big red subscribe button. Supposedly it helps you find my videos but only if you look real hard. Thanks YouTube. Either way, I'm here every sunday, so y'all come back now.

Now that our tomatoes are nice and blistered it's time to go in with our clams. I've got 12 here which is probably only enough for me. Good thing I'm not sharing tonight.
Now, you can clean these out by leaving them in salt water with cornstarch overnight, but sand shouldn't be a huge problem unless you get them straight from the sea. Mostly I find a little at the bottom of the bowl.
To the pan, add a cup of white wine. I'm using cab sauv, increase the temperature to high, cover it up and let those guys steam for anywhere from 5-10 minutes, until the clams open on up.
There's usually a few stragglers, so as they open pull them out to a bowl while you wait for the rest to open. And of course, if any don't open after 10min or so, toss em in the trash.
Now that our clams are out of the pan, add 60 grams- about half a stick of butter, season with salt and pepper, and stir until the butter melts. I like to pop the tomatoes at this point so it turns into a kind of tomato sauce, but feel free to leave em whole if you like that aesthetic.
Now pour that sauce over the clams, garnish with a little chopped parsley and fresh oregano, and serve with those chronchy crostini we toasted earlier.
