Daniel Walkthrough


Hey, welcome back.
Today I wanted to show you a recipe that's inspired by one from Daniel Boulud's cookbook, Daniel – it's a sea bass en papillotte with a leek custard, confit potatoes, and a bordelaise reduction. Ohh, it's gonna be a fancy one.
I've simplified some of the techniques in order to make things easier, more accessible, and less time consuming, but feel free to jump to any piece of the recipe using the timestamps below.


Before we get started, go ahead and take out a stick of butter so it can come to room temp.
Just wanna make your life easier later on.


So let's get started with our Bordelaise reduction, which will take the longest.
Get a saucepan going over medium heat and let's add in a 30g knob of butter.
Once it's melted, throw in a sliced shallot, and sauté that until it starts picking up some color.
Now go ahead and add a whole 750ml bottle of red wine. I'm using a french table wine, but Daniel's recipe calls for a syrah, which would be equally nice.
Now, in a traditional bordelaise, you'd also add in beef stock, but for this I'm adding 250ml of a tawny port. This will serve to reinforce and deepen the wine flavor.
Crack in some black pepper and a couple sprigs of thyme, and we can move that to the back burner to simmer and reduce by half.


While that's going let's work on the potatoes.
Chef Boulud's recipe is a modern twist on pommes lyonnaise – pan fried potatoes and onions –  which involves running a potato through a vegetable sheeter, rolling it up with caramelized onions and a garlic paste, then confiting and frying it. That's a bit intense and involves equipment you probably don't have.
So instead, we'll be confiting some cubed potatoes, and caramelizing some onions separately.

So go ahead and slice the round edges off a potato, and then let's cut that into 2cm cubes. Try to make the sides as parallel as possible so it looks ... extra fancy.
Now we're going to confit these in clarified butter. If you've got 250ml of clarified butter on hand, go ahead and use that – and in hindsight I probably should've popped on down to my local Indian grocery for some ghee – but if you don't, and didn't, then throw about 500g of butter into a skillet, or saucepan, and let that melt.
Once it's melted, turn up the heat a little and let's skim off the solids that float to the surface. When it's all clear, you've got clarified that can be reused just like oil.
So throw in the potatoes and let's confit them – that's basically simmering in fat – for about an hour. And be sure to rotate them occasionally if one side sticks out...


Next up we've got a fun twist on a leek royale. Typically this is like a leek quiche or custard, but this one uses pureed leeks, and gets cut into fancy cubes.
So let's chop up the greens of three leeks – yes, finally we've got something to use those for!
And we want to briefly boil them so they soften up, 
so fill a pot of water, bring it to a boil, and throw in the leeks.
Boil them for 5 minutes until soft, then we can strain those out and toss them into a food processor to blend.
Once they're smooth, transfer them into a bowl, and add 250ml of heavy cream.
Mix that well so the cream turns green from the leeks, then go ahead and press those through a fine mesh strainer.
We want to get all the liquid we can out of this, so it may take a while.
Feel free to skip this step if you're ok with a rougher texture, but this will really make things nice and smoooooth.
Now let's add 5 cracked eggs (I only added 3 and it turned out a bit soft), beat those in, and let's add 250 more ml of cream.

Go ahead and grease the inside of a baking dish or loaf pan with butter, and cut a piece of parchment to fit inside and grease that as well. I flipped it over once inide to get both sides coated in butter. 
Pour your leek custard inside, place it into a larger pan, then fill that pan with water. This is called a bain marie and it will act to steam and double boil the custard in the oven. So go ahead and carefully transfer that all to a 175°C oven for 40min.


Now for the caramelized onions, I'm using shallots. Not that there's much of any discernable difference... I just wanted to reduce the ingredients list.
So to a skillet over medium low heat add 30g of butter and let it melt.
Once it's melted go in with 5 sliced shallots. I used a mandolin to get a smoother texture in the final product, but shallots are a bit scary on this thing, so maybe use this opportunity to practice your knife skills instead.
Now we're going to let those heat up slightly on one side for 5min without touching them. Now go ahead and stir them so the other side can get some color, and again wait 5 minutes. Now let's season with salt and the leaves off a sprig of thyme, and continue with the process. 5min of browning without touching. 
All in all this took about 45min to get rich jammy shallots, but your mileage may vary. The key is just to take your time.
Once they're ready, let's transfer them to a small bowl and chop them up with a stick blender. This could also be done by hand, but I didn't want to wash my cutting board yet again...


At this point our bordelaise should be reduced by half, so let's go ahead and strain out the shallots and thyme.
And return it to the pot to reduce by half again. So we should have gone from 1L of liquid to 500ml, and now we want to go from 500ml to 250ml.


Ok, back to our potatoes, let's remove them from the pan, and let them cool off while we deal with the whites from our leeks. Go ahead and slice them on a mandolin (or by hand, I'm not your boss.) and dust them with rice flour. Now bring the skillet with the clarified butter up to 175°C – that's 350•F – and add in the leeks in batches. They really bubble up, so take your time here. Once they look almost golden brown, remove them to a paper towel to drain. They're really thin, so any longer and they'll burn. Trust me, I learned the hard way.

Once your leeks are all crisped up, let's pour off most of the clarified butter into a storage container, leaving about a tablespoon in the pan.
Now, over medium-high heat crisp up the potatoes on all 4 sides before removing them to a paper towel to drain.


At this point the leek custard should be ready, so remove that from the oven and let it cool off.


Finally we get to the fish. This is an upscale minimalist approach to "en papillote".
Here I've got a fillet of sea bass – feel free to use a less expensive fish, this stuff is ... [rolls eyes]
Go ahead and cut the fillet into a long rectangle. Now slice into the skin lengthwise, being sure to leave a little meat attached below.
Now fold that in half so the skin faces outwards. Go ahead and trim off any uneven surfaces so it's nice and cubic. 
Maximum fance.

Now, remember that stick of butter that's been sitting there unattended for the entirety of this episode? Cut a piece of parchment and grease that up with the butter. Easy to spread, isn't it...
Now roll up the fish tightly in that parchment, and let's throw it in the oven, same temp as before, for 8-10min.


While that's in the oven, go ahead and turn your attention to the bordelaise. 
It should've reduced by now, bring it up to a boil and drop in 120g of butter. Yeah yeah, this is french restaurant cuisine. Everything has butter in it...


Finally we can plate everything. Unless we forgot... NO we're good!
Ok, Onto your fanciest plate spoon a fancy line of our fancy sauce.
Next to that spoon a parallel line of our caramelized shallots.
Now flop the leek custard out onto a cutting board and cube it up the same size as the potatoes. 
Again, add those extra eggs or it'll be loose.
And let's place those cubes down on top of the shallots, alternating leek, potato, leek, potato.
And finally we can unwrap and plate the fish on top of the bordelaise.

And with that, we're ready to DEVOUR.