Hey, welcome back.
One of my favorite restaurants in the city was a tiny Japanese-Italian fusion restaurant called Dieci. 
They closed shop a few years ago, but I still remeber loving the way they seamlessly intertwined the two cuisines.
Today I'll be making a dish that's inspired by one of my favorite dishes of theirs — ramen bolognese. 
My version will replace many of the western ingredients with some Japanese analogs, so it should also be a pretty decent primer on the Japanese pantry.

To get started let's get some oil going in a pot over medium high heat.
To that we'll add in some aromatics.
I've got a 2cm knob of minced ginger.
Forgive how gnarly this looks — I didn't want to cut a fresh piece of ginger for this and have the rest floating around my bin like so many other bits of ginger...

Next up, the Dieci version was a spicy ragu, so I'm adding in some chili peppers.
The only japanese chilis I could get my hands on were shishitos, which are hit or miss, so to ensure at least a little spice I'll also add in a single thai chili.

Before I add in the rest of my aromatics I'm gonna throw in 150g of pork belly that I've minced up.
This will replace the pancetta that's usually found in a bolognese. And adding it in now will ensure it gets a chance to brown and render out its fat.

Once that's brown I'll go in with these Japanese scallions, aka negi, that I'll mince up. I'm using this in place of onion. Feel free to use western scallions instead.

Next up, throw in a couple sticks of minced celery. No replacement here, but if you've got chinese celery, that'll add a nicer fragrance.

as well as 1/3 of a daikon radish. This will replace the carrot, and will add a bit of sweetness to our sauce.

Next up I'll add in some sesame oil for a nice bit of toasty richness

A few pinches of salt

and some sansho pepper.
This is a ground peppercorn that tastes a bit lemony and reminds me of galangal, but also has the same numbing property as sichuan pepper

Let that all brown a little bit until some of the moisture evaporates, then we can go in with 500g of ground lamb. Not traditional in either cuisine, but Dieci's dish was a lamb ragu, so I stuck with the theme.

Let that brown and keep it moving, breaking up any clumps into little granules.

Then we can go in with 200ml of sake.

Mix that thoroughly, bring it up to a simmer, and let the wine cook off for about 15min until it's reduced.

Once it's looking a bit dryer, add 2 tablespoons of tomato paste and mix that in well

Then we can add in 350g of crushed tomatoes. That's about 300ml

Finally let's add in 150ml of dashi. This should add some baseline umami that you'd normally get from a bay leaf.
You can use bottled dashi, but if you want to make it yourself, add one sheet of kombu to a pot of water over high heat.

Bring that up to a boil, and just before it starts to boil remove the nori and add in a couple tablespoons of katsuobushi, aka bonito flakes.

Cut the heat and let that rest for a few minutes before straining it out.

Ok, let's mix in our dashi, reduce the heat to low, and let that simmer, covered, for at least 2 hours.


Once the ragu is ready, go ahead and bring a pot of water to a boil and toss in a serving or two of ramen noodles.
I'm using these Sun noodles, which are amazing and fresh, but feel free to use whatever you can get your hands on. Any alkaline noodle will do.

Cook those according to the package, then strain them and toss them in a pan along with a few ladles of our ragu. Stir for a few minutes to make sure every nood is coated in sauce, then we can go ahead and plate those up along with some grated parmigiano cheese, some thinly sliced negi greens, and a ramen egg, boiled for 6.5 minutes.


