Welcome back
Lots of people of Indian descent in Fiji?
Explore the flavors of their unique cuisine
through a chicken potato curry.
It's super quick and easy, 
and uses widely available ingredients, 
so follow along and let's make a delicious weeknight meal.

Get a dutch oven going over medium high heat
add in 60ml of oil
once shimmering (explain)
add half a sliced onion
my onions are about 10cm in diameter so adjust accordingly
sauté those until they start getting golden,
then add in 3 or 4 cloves of minced garlic
and X grams of minced ginger
You can use garlic ginger paste here if you've got it
stir those around until they're fragrant
then let's go in with a teaspoon of garam masala
this is your standard Indian spice blend with tons of warming spices.
It's pretty widely available in grocery stores these days, 
but you can also make your own by mixing a few spices together, 
that way you have more control over the balance of flavors
Next up add in a teaspoon of dried turmeric
a teaspoon of cumin seed – i love the citrusy zing it lends to dishes
and some chili powder. I'm adding a couple teaspoons since i like a little heat, 
but feel free to reduce this or leave it out if you don't want to feel the burn.
Mix those all in well and toast them for a minute,
then we'll add in a whole chicken that I've cut into bite size chunks.
take off the skin from the thighs and breasts so this doesn't get too fatty
but be sure to save that – you can render out some schmaltz 
or crisp it up in a pan as a "sometimes" treat
Add a couple pinches of salt, mix the chicken in so it's coated with all those spices,
then we'll reduce the heat to medium low, cover that up and let it go for 10-15 min.

SUBSCRIBE INSTAGRAM

Notice I didn't add any water, since a decent amount of juice is gonna come from the chicken.
That said, I have seen some people add water at this point for a soupier curry. So you do you.
After the time is up, go ahead and add X grams of peeled and chopped potatoes.
For me that was 3 of these red potatoes.
Mix those in, cover that up and let it cook for another 20min until the potatoes are cooked through.
And with that we're ready to serve over white rice, with a nice sprinkle of cilantro.
This also could do nicely with a squeeze of lime to balance things out a bit.
