Gnocchi Korma Walkthrough


Hey, welcome back.
Today I'll be continuing my exploration of fusion cuisine by pairing two celebrated cuisines in a bit of an unorthodox way.
Gnocchi alla Korma is my attempt at combining a bold creamy cashew korma with pillowy gnocchi, fried in sage brown butter.
Should be interesting to say the least.

Let's get started by placing a sauté pan on the stove over medium heat, and melting a few tablespoons of clarified butter.
Once the butter's melted and shimmering, add in a cinnamon stick, a few cloves, three bay leaves, a couple teaspoons of cumin seeds, and a couple teaspoons of crushed coriander seeds.
Let those get aromatic so they start infusing into the butter, then we can go in with a thinly sliced onion.
Sauté that until it starts to soften up and take on some color. 
Feel free to add a few drops of water to make sure the onions and spices don't burn.
Once the onions have softened a bit, go ahead and remove the bay leaves and cinnamon stick.
Next up, rather than making a garlic ginger paste, I'm just gonna mince up a 2cm knob of ginger, and a few cloves of garlic, and throw those in.
We'll be pureeing this later, so it's not that important to mince this too finely. 
For a little bit of spice, add in three sliced green chilis
And now we'll add some ground spices.
Two teaspoons each of kashmiri chili, turmeric.
Let's season with salt, then add in about half a cup of yogurt. I'm using greek yogurt here for its thickness — feel free to use whatever you've got as long as it isn't the sugary kind. Looking at you chobani, yoplait, and dannon...
Mix that in, adding a little water to thin things out for easier distribution, then dump the whole thing into a food processor or blender.
Add in a cup of cashews — I'm using roasted to accentuate the nuttiness — and blitz that until it's totally smooth. 
I ended up adding quite a bit of water to get the right consistency, so feel free to adjust as needed. 
This is a very concentrated sauce, so it can handle a bit of dilution before it ends up tasting bland.
Once it's completely smooth I ran my korma through a sieve to get an even finer texture.
This is totally optional, but I'm going for fancy date night haute cuisine rather than a hearty rustic meal.
Bear in mind, it's a lot of work and I had to throw the strained bits back into the blender to ensure sufficient cashew flavor was getting through.
Once it's all strained go ahead and set that aside — and feel free to store this for a few days in the fridge if you want to prep ahead of time.

Now let's move onto the gnocchi. 
I've got two potatoes here that weigh about 500g together. 
This'll give me about 8 servings of gnocchi, so feel free to cut that in half if you want.
Peel and dice the potatoes, then throw them in a pot of cold water.
Bring them to a boil for 10min, then strain and mash with a fork.
Probably easier with a potato ricer, but this wasn't all that hard.
Now, pile those into a mound, add 150g of flour, form a well in the middle, and add a cracked egg.
Mix that well until a dough forms, adding extra flour if it's too sticky.
Once the dough is ready, divide it into 8 pieces.
For the classic pillow shape, Roll each piece into a 15mm rope, then divide with a bench scraper.
It helps to flick the scraper a little to form them a little better.
As for me, again I'm going for a fine dining white tablecloth vibe, so I'll roll out one piece of dough into a 1.5cm rectangle,
then cut the gnocchi into cubes. Because cube = fancy. BTW this is pretty difficult to get perfectly cubic since the dough is fluffy and soft.
But do your best and it'll still look impressively unexpected.

Now let's get a liter of water up to a rolling boil in a saucepan
season it well with salt, and boil our gnocchi briefly, just until they float.
It really takes no time at all, so keep a close eye on them.
The good news is, these keep pretty well on a plate while your making your final preperations, 
so no need to rush into the next step.
So strain those out, cool them under running water, and set them aside while we get a stick, or 115g of butter melting in a frying pan over medium heat.
Once it's melted, keep stirring the butter while it starts foaming and sizzling. 
Eventually the color will change from white to yellow to golden brown.
At this point we've got brown butter and it's time to throw in a few leaves of sage
This'll season the butter and the sage leaves will become a crispy topping for our dish.
So once the sage leaves are wilted and get fragrant — only a couple minutes — remove them and add in our gnocchi.
Brown the gnocchi on all 6 sides until golden brown and slightly crispy.
At the same time get a few ladles of our korma going in another frying pan over medium heat.
Once the gnocchi are crisped up, remove them to the korma, and stir to coat and soak up the sauce for a couple of minutes.
Once they're sufficiently coated, we're ready to plate.
I'd recommend spooning a couple of ladles of the korma into a bowl, then strategically placing 6 of the gnocchi in the bowl.
Finally top with the crispy sage leaves, and drizzle some of the sage butter around the bowl. 
It should look pretty effin fancy.