Hey, Welcome Back!

As my entry into the 2020 Play Korean Food Video Contest

I'll be making a kimchi pizza. And no, it's not a gimmick

I've been making this pizza at home for years and it's one

of my favorite twists on two of my favorite foods.



To get started let's make the dough.

In the bowl of a stand mixer weigh out 500g of bread flour — 

this'll get you two 16 inch pies. And I'm measuring by weight

here so you'll be able to adjust your portions with simple division

To that flour I'm adding 10g of sugar to help with browning, 7 grams of salt, one packet of

active dry yeast, 25g of olive oil, and finally 350g of warm water.

That gives us a 70% hydration dough.

Mix that with the hook attachment (or by hand if you're in for a workout)

for about 5min.

Now let's turn that out onto our work surface, divide it in half, 

and transfer each half into an oiled container for proofing.

Throw those guys in the fridge overnight or for up to three days.


Next let's move onto the toppings.

I've got some pork belly — a classic korean bbq ingredient —

that I'm going to par-cook in a skillet. I want it to crisp up in the oven,

but chances are it won't have long enough to cook unless we give it a little

help.

So turn that skillet on to low heat, and once the pork turns white

let's remove that off to a paper towel to cool off.

Once it's cool throw it in a bowl with some sliced garlic, sliced chongnyam chilies —

or jalapenos if that's what you've got — some dark soy, mirim — a seasoned cooking wine,

sesame oil, honey, salt and pepper.

Go ahead and throw that in the fridge to marinate while we 

work on our sauce, or in this case, our kimchi.

So, kimchi may sound like a weird choice here but it's got a similar acidity

to tomato sauce, and once it's cooked it takes on this bold, tangy, and unique

flavor that goes great with pizza.

Here I've got half a head of kimchi — this is probably too much so feel free to 

use half of this — but I'm going to go ahead and braise this.

So let's place that in the skillet, crank the heat to medium high, and let that

get some color.

while that's heating up, I'm gonna make an anchovy kelp broth using one of these

little packets in about a liter of water. You could also use a sheet of kombu and some

bonito flakes, or just plain old water if you don't have access to either.

Once the water comes to a boil, remove the bag, and pour the broth in with the kimchi.

Now let's braise the kimchi for 45min or until the water is mostly evaporated.


While that's going let's preheat our oven to its max temperature — 260C in my case.

I've got a baking steel which should help concentrate the heat and crisp up the bottom

of our pie nicely, but a baking stone, or a simple baking sheet should do the trick nicely.

At the same time let's get our pizza dough out of the fridge so it can come to room temperature.

I find it's much easier to stretch and less likely to tear if the dough isn't cold.

Dump it out of its container, oil side down, and start shaping it into a ball using the edges of

your palms. That will seal up the bottom seam which will prevent thin spots in the dough when we

go to press it out into shape.

Now let's add a little more oil to the containers and toss the dough balls in, cover them up

and let them rest till we're ready to shape our pies.

Once the kimchi's ready, let's remove it off to the side to cool, and once it's cool we

can blend it up in a food processor. I like to to blend it to a similar consistency of crushed

tomatoes, for a little texture, but feel free to go as fine or as chunky as you like.

Alright, now we finally get to build our pies.

Dump one of your dough balls onto a well floured work surface, and press it out into a circle.

I'm not the best at shaping dough, and you might not be either, but that's ok because pizza is 

delicious no matter how it looks. One thing I've found is that pressing out the handle, or cornicione

won't really affect a well proofed dough like ours. In fact, if you don't press it out, it'll really puff up

in the oven. It's up to you what style you want for your pizza, but I prefer a thinner crust on mine.

Once the dough is shaped to your liking, slide it over to a well floured peel or baking sheet.

From here we've got to move fast, as the dough will want to start sticking the longer we wait.

Give it a little shake test every now and again to make sure you'll be able to transfer it to the oven later.

So grab a spoonful of kimchi and spread it around as you would with tomato sauce. I'd use less

than you think you need, or it'll overpower the other ingredients.

Next I've got some shredded low moisture mozzarella that I'll sprinkle on top. You can use fresh

mozzarella if you're a purist, but it tends to make pizza soggy, and that'll be hard to handle later.

Finally let's spread out our pork belly, chilies, and garlic — as much or as little as you want.

Throw that into the oven, and after about a minute switch on the broiler to make sure the top gets nice and crispy.

The oven in my new place was acting up so my pies turned out a bit more blonde than I like them, but

your mileage may vary, so once the pizza looks golden brown, or the crust feels like it's fully baked,

remove to a cutting board and let it cool just enough to slice it into 6 slices.