Linguine ai gamberi

9 Jumbo Shrimp
A Handful of cherry tomatoes
300g linguini
200ml of white wine
2 clove of garlic
extra virgin olive oil
1 chili pepper
salt
parsley


Hey, welcome back.
Today I'll be making a classic Italian seafood pasta.
It's linguine ai gamberi

To get started we want to make a shrimp sauce.
So into a sauté pan over medium heat, let's throw
a couple tablespoons of olive oil.
Once it comes to temperature we'll add in 3 cloves
of peeled garlic, being sure to remove the germ from
any older cloves. You can really see the difference here
and it'll make a big difference in flavor.

Along with that let's add in a couple of sliced chilies.
I'm using these Chinese ones since I already have them for
another recipe, and because my heat tolerance is just stupid
at this point, but feel free to use something milder, or to
leave these out entirely.

Sauté those together for a few minutes, and while they're going
we're gonna remove the heads from 6 shrimp. I'll get back to the
shrimp later in the recipe, but for now let's toss in those shrimp
heads and let them get some color.
This will really concentrate the shrimp flavor in the sauce, and
you should be able to see the oil turning a nice golden color.
Once that happens let's add in about 125ml of white wine and
Bring that up to a simmer for a couple minutes, to cook off the
harsher alcohol notes, 
then we can go ahead and strain that all out and set it aside.

Now let's fill a large pot with water,
season it well with salt,
and bring it to a boil.
Add in a couple servings of linguine, and let that boil until al dente
While that's going, go ahead and subscribe to my channel – I've got new
recipes out every sunday.

Alright now back to the shrimp –
I've got 9 in total. Let's set aside 3 for garnish, and peel the other 6

I've found it's easiest to use a pair of kitchen shears to 
snip down the length of the shell. This also helps us devein
the shrimp, since it opens up the whole back.
Once they're peeled and deveined I'll butterfly them with my knife.
This will let them curl up nicely once cooked, and create a nice texture.

Now into a frying pan over medium high heat, add a tablespoon of olive oil
and once it's shimmering let's add in 3 more cloves of peeled garlic.
Once that's fragrant, add in the three whole shrimp and let those fry
on both sides.
When they're starting to change color, add in the rest of our shrimp
and fry that until the color changes as well.

Now lets add our shrimp sauce back into our sauté pan, 
along with a handful of cherry tomatoes that I've sliced in half.
Season those with a pinch of salt, and let them cook for about
5 minutes until they start getting wrinkly and release their juices.
Go ahead and add a ladle of pasta water, as well as an optional splash
of white wine, then we can add in our linguine.
Stir that well so the tomatoes are all mixed in, then we can add in 
the butterflied shrimp.
Add in a handful of chopped parsley, mix well, and we're ready to serve.
I like to make it fancy by twirling the pasta with my tongs, and topping it
with one whole shrimp.

