Welcome Back

Today I'll be making a creamy, nutty, smokey, 

bowl of stewed greens with beef and shrimp.

A little bit of surf and turf

It's ndole from Cameroon


To get started let's prep our greens

typically you'd use the bitter leaves from a

relative of the daisy family, but those are

hard to source without some international shipping

so I opted for 3 bunches of spinach, roughly chopped,

as well as a bunch of dandelion leaves to add the

charicteristic bitterness.

The stems are a bit thick, so let's chop those off before

cutting the whole bunch into pieces and dumping them in a pot.

Cover those all up with water – about 2.5 liters – and let's bring

that to a boil, covered, for about 30 minutes.


Now, at the same time we need to boil some peanuts.

I've got about 600g of raw peanuts without their hulls.

Let's cover them up with water, bring that to a boil as well, 

and cook them for the same amount of time – 30 minutes.


While those are both going we're going to build a beef broth.

So into yet another pot, pour a couple tablespoons of oil

and once it comes up to medium high heat, add in half a diced onion.

Go ahead and sauté that until it's translucent, at which point we'll 

add in some beef. Here I have 600g of oxtail, but you could use any 

cut of beef with a good amount of fat.

Brown that slightly on both sides, season it with salt,

then we'll add in a liter and a half of water.

Reduce the heat to medium low, cover it up, and let it simmer for 30 minutes.


At this point our peanuts should be softened and ready to use

We're gonna make a puree with these, so throw them in a food processor or blender,

along with whatever cooking liquid remains.

Add in the other half of that diced onion, as well as a couple of habanero peppers

I've just removed the stems and sliced them in half to help out the blender

And 3 cloves of peeled garlic. This garlic is fairly old, so I'm removing the germ

– that's that central stem – to avoid any acrid notes. Sohla El Waylly wrote a great

article that goes into the details of this technique.

Alright, now let's blend that into a fine puree, adding water along the way as necessary.

And after removing the meat, we can add it into the beef broth.

Give that a good stir, and bring it to a simmer for a few minutes to let the flavors mingle

before adding back in our beef.


Next up we're going to prep a west african staple ingredient – smoked fish.

This'll give everything a nice smokey umami note.

So place the fish in a bowl and cover it up with some hot water.

After about 5 minutes the fish should have softened up a bit, so let's

remove the head, fins, and any bones, and tear it into bite sized pieces

before adding it into the stew.


Now let's turn our attention back to the greens.

They should be nice and soft by now, so let's strain them out, and form

them into balls. I like transferring them into cool water so they're easier to handle.


Add those balls to the stew, and give them a good stir to incorporate fully.

Finally we can prep a topping for the stew –- some sauteed shrimp and onions.

Into a skillet, add a couple tablespoons of oil, and once it's hot add in a sliced onion

Sauté those for a few minutes, then add in one serving (or as many as you need) of peeled

shrimp. I'm using the frozen, headless, easy-peel variety for ease of ... peeling

Once those shrimp turn pink we're ready to plate it all up.