PaoJiangDou Walkthrough


Hey, welcome back.

Today I'll be making one of my favorite sichuan dishes – a briney, spicy long bean stirfry called Pào jiāngdòu chǎo ròumòu – Literally pickled longbeans and fried mince.

Now, pickled longbeans can be found in your local Chinese grocery store, but if you don't have one of those, making them is easy. So let's do that.

Here I've got a 2L mason jar – use a pickling jar if you've got one, but this'll do just fine.

To that we're going to add our pickling spices and build our brine.
So go ahead and toss in 3 or 4 Star Anise
About a tablespoon of Sichuan Peppercorns
240g of salt – use pickling salt if you've got it,
40g of rock sugar – regular sugar should work fine as well
30g of unpeeled garlic cloves
and 150g of red sichuan chillies – the thai ones should also work, basically any small spicy chili pepper with a mild flavor.

Now let's twist a bunch of longbeans into the jar so they spiral tightly inside.
Really pack them in there – they'll shrink as the salt draws out the moisture from the beans.
I also like to give the jar a shake to make sure the salt is evenly distributed. You can also just do this after we add the water.
So now let's pour in 1.5L of water – it should come all the way to the mouth of the jar, and the beans should be fully submerged. I had to cut the top ones a bit shorter to make that happen.

Now let's cover the jar, and let them pickle for 10 days.

After the first day you should start to see bubbles – evidence of fermentation, and by the end of the 10 days the bubbling should subside. And the bubbles shouldn't be enough to break your jar, but just to be safe, burp the lid once every day.

Ok, now that our pickles are ready we can get on with the stir fry.

For the meat, I've got 150g of ground pork.
It may not seem like much, but it's really meant as a textural element – the beans should be the star of the show here.

Now, my butcher didn't have ground pork, so I just got pork shoulder and minced it myself, but I do think ground pork will make for a better texture here.

So add that to a bowl and let's marinate it with 5ml each of Shaoxing wine and soy sauce, as well as a few cracks of white pepper.
And you can totally use ground chicken or tofu or seitan if you can't eat pork.

Go ahead and give that a thorough mix, and set it aside.

Now let's prep the longbeans by removing them from the jar, and chopping them into 5mm segments, discarding the end caps.
I'd also recommend giving them a rinse to get off any excess salt, because they can be extra salty.

Now get a wok extra hot, let's add a few tablespoons of oil, cut the heat, and add a tablespoon of sichuan peppercorns.
Fry those until fragrant, then remove them, reserving the oil in the wok. 
This will infuse the oil with the flavor of the peppercorns but we won't run the risk of accidentally biting into one when we're eating the stir fry.

Let's do the same with a tablespoon of minced ginger, as well as 9 sliced dried chillies.
Turn the heat back to medium high, add the ginger and chillies, let them get fragrant, and remove them.
And you'll probably start sneezing at this point, so have a tissue box handy.

Finally let's add 3 sliced cloves of garlic, along with 10 of the pickled chillies that we've sliced up. 
Let those get fragrant, then we can go in with the ground pork.

Fry the pork until golden, chopping it apart into small granules as it cooks. 
We want the size of the pork granules to match the size of the longbeans so we get an even mouth-feel.

Now let's add 15ml of Shaoxing wine, and continue to stir fry until it's mostly evaporated.
Then we can go in with the longbeans.
Let's season with 5g of salt, 
5g of sugar, 
and 15ml of soy sauce.

Go ahead and stir fry that over high heat for 2-3min until the soy sauce has mostly evaporated and concentrated into a rich coating on the beans and pork.

And now we're ready to serve.