Welcome Back
It's the holiday season so I thought I'd make a holiday roast
This is a costa rican pierna de cerdo recipe that's basted with cola

Now, typically this would be a roast ham, but I'm not feeding an army
this year, so I opted for a pork shoulder. The flavor might be a bit
different, but it should still turn out nice.

This is a 3 kilo shoulder, that I'm gonna prep by removing any skin
and excess fat
then I'll go ahead and score it to allow the marinade to penetrate.
Usually you'd just pierce the meat with a thin knife, but I like the
pattern you get from scoring it, especially when it crisps up in the oven

Now for our marinade let's chop up an onion and throw it into a food processor.
Just do that roughly to help out the machine.

Along with that I'll add a teaspoon of dried oregano
Strip the leaves off a couple of sprigs of rosemary and throw those in
as well as some salt
pepper
and a whole head of peeled garlic.
This older garlic tends to peel quite easily, so you can just squeeze
the cloves to separate the paper.
Since it is old I'm going to remove the germ from the middle to avoid
any acrid flavor
Dump those guys in, and add about 30ml of mustard
as well as 250ml or a cup of orange juice.
Go ahead an blitz that until it's smooth, and taste for balance of flavor,
adding more of anything that seems to be missing.

Now let's transfer the pork into a large bowl and pour on the marinade
being sure to spread it into all those scores we made earlier

Cover that up and throw it in the fridge for a few hours, or preferrably
overnight.

Now that the pork has had time to marinate, let's add some aromatics to the
bottom of a baking dish
I've got a roughly chopped onion
a few stalks of celery
and a very large carrot that I'll chop into equal sized pieces.
I like to make sure that the pieces are similar between the vegetables
so they all cook evenly.
That may mean adjusting your chopping from one end of the carrot to the other

Now let's place the pork on top of that bed of vegetables, and pour 
the marinade on top
Next, cover it up with tinfoil, which will help keep it from drying out
and throw it in a 175°C – that's 350°F – oven.
We want to cook it 1hr per kilo, so for me that's three hours total.

At 30min intervals let's baste our roast, so remove that tin foil,
and – ideally you'll have a baster, but I used a spoon for this –
go ahead and drizzle the marinade and drippings over the top of the roast.
Next comes the cola. We want to use about 500ml or 2 cups of cola
over the course of our 5 bastings. So drizzle on about 1/5 of that amout
and throw the roast back in the oven.

As it continues to roast we'll baste it 4 more times, the same way each time
Towards the end you may notice a lot of drippings filling the dish
Feel free to drain those or make a gravy out of them, but it's a good idea
to remove them so the bottom of the roast doesn't get soggy.

Finally after 3 hours test the temperature. If it reads 68°C or 155°F it's ready to go
remove it from the oven and let it rest for 10min before slicing it up and serving.
