Welcome Back.

Today I'm making a chicken and potato casserole ... from Libya

It's called tagine jabn and it's got melted cheese in it!

So to get started let's heat up some olive oil in a pot over medium high heat.

Once it comes up to temperature, we're going to add in a diced onion, and 

let that sauté until it turns soft and translucent.

Next up let's add 3 cloves of minced garlic, and let it get fragrant.

Now we want to add in 500g – about two breasts – of diced chicken.

Go ahead and mix that in, and after a few minutes we're gonna go in with

a couple teaspoons of a five-spice mix called Hararat. It varies depending

on who's making it, but mine includes ground cardamom, cinnamon, clove, nutmeg, 

and white pepper

Mix that thoroughly so it's evenly distributed, then we can add in 

half a cup of water – about 125ml

Crank the heat to high, bring it to a boil, then we'll let the chicken 

stew for about 10 minutes, until it's fully cooked and the water's reduced

Now let's remove that out into a bowl and let it cool off.

Once it's nice and cool, add in 5 peeled and diced potatoes. I'm using these

little guys, but if your potatoes are bigger you can use less.

Next up I've got a handful each of parsley and cilantro – no need to figure out

which is which this time – let's mince those together and add them in.

Let's season with salt and pepper, then we can go in with five cracked eggs.

Mix those in thoroughly, then we're going to add a full stick of cream cheese

and about a cup – 250ml – of shredded melting cheese. I'm using low moisture mozzarella

Mix that all in to distribute it evenly, and now we'll transfer the entire mixutre to 

a baking dish, spread it out evenly, and sprinkle a little more mozzarella on top so

we get a nice crispy crust on top.

Throw that in a 190°C oven – that's 375 for my friends in Liberia – for 45min or until

the top is looking brown and crispy. You may need to throw it under the broiler for a few

depending on your oven.

