So I was at the beach last weekend in a ... former soviet part of town.
I walked past some central asian guys that were grilling some skewers and it smelled amazing.
So I stopped by a Uyghur restaurant on the way home – had to scratch the itch with some grilled meat and giant manti –
and got inspired to do some research into central asian kebabs.
So today I'll be making two simple yet delicious Uyghur style kawap, aka kebabs

The first one is just seasoned cubed lamb or beef, so let's start by cutting 500g of lamb into 2cm cubes.
It's ideal if they've got a little fat on them, since that's a flavor that's sought after in this dish.
Now throw the cubes in a bowl and cover them up with water. 
This is meant to tenderize the meat, while also allowing it to soak up the seasoning better.
Cover it up and set it aside for at least an hour while we work on the second version
which will be a mince kebab, or keema kawap.

So cut another 500g of lamb into 2cm cubes
to that I'll add half a thinly sliced onion, and go ahead and knead those onions to break down the cell walls and release the juices. This will help marinate the meat and tenderize the onions so we don't bite into solid chunks of onion. It also seems to reduce the sharpness of the onions since I guess it's releasing those sulfur compounds way before it gets to your mouth – great idea for salads.
now let's season with salt and pepper, as well as some freshly ground cumin – this is a necessity in Uyghur cuisine – it's so much more fragrant than preground cumin.
as well as some freshly ground coriander seed
and some chili powder.
Now we're gonna mince this finely. You can use a food processor, or chop it by hand like you'd do with a dumpling filling, but I wanted to test out my new meat grinder attachment, so that's what I'm using.
If you're doing the same you'll want to run it through twice to get it to the texture we want.
Once it's finely ground, knead it for a few minutes to develop some bounce in the meat, then we'll divide it into egg sized balls, by rolling it in well oiled hands, and tossing it back and forth a few times.

Back to the cubed lamb, you can see the water has absorbed a lot of the myoglobin that was formerly turning the meat red, and when we drain the water the meat is now a light pink color. Weird.
Let's season with salt,
some freshly ground cumin,
and freshly ground black pepper
before mixing it thoroughly, and setting it aside while we prep our grill

Now I've mostly seen people using rectangular yakitori style grills for this, but I've got a standard cheap-o round american grill, so I'll be using that, but remove the grate so the meat can basically rotisserie over the coals.
Light up your charcoal (maybe something fancier than this easy ignite stuff), and wait for it to turn white.
While that's heating let's prepare our kawap ...kawaplar?
I couldn't find the flat, wide skewers typically uised for this anywhere so I went to the hardware store and macgyuvered some out of aluminum l-beams.
For the cubes, thread them on loosely. Too tight and they won't cook as evenly on the sides.
For the keema, stab the skewer through the middle of the ball, then use your thumb and index finger to squeeze it into a long ...log ... yeah, don't worry it tastes much better than it looks.

Throw those guys on the grill, rotating every few minutes as it begings to take on some color, then once the internal temperature reaches a safe temperature for lamb (that's 145°F in the US) serve it up with a nice cucumber tomato salad.
This one's a generic "central asian" salad with a yogurt dressing that kind of resembles Qurutob from Tajikistan – minus the non.