Walkthrough



Welcome back

Today I'll be making a flaky leek 

and cheese pie from the balkans

No, not that one.

This is zelnik from North Macedonia


Let's start by mixing our dough.

Into the bowl of a stand mixer I'm going in with

500g of flour. 

Let's season that with a teaspoon of salt, about 10g

a teaspoon of sugar, for browning

one packet, or about 7 grams of active dry yeast

and a tablespoon of oil

Now let's add 250ml of water and mix that together with
 
our hook attachment.

this is a very low hydration dough, so it may be dough to mix

but let that come together into a ball, and if it gets

rubbery, let it rest for a while until it softens up.

My stand mixer was having a tough time with this

so I turned it out onto my counter and kneaded it by hand

once it's nice and smooth, roll that into a log and divide

it into 16 pieces. I only made 8 here, thinking that the

balls would be too small, but this stuff really stretches

thin.

Now let's roll those guys in oil, place them on a tray,

cover them up and let them rise for an hour



in the meantime let's work on the filling.

I've got 3 leeks that I'm gonna chop up. They'll soften

up as we cook them, so feel free to go with whatever size you want.

Now, leeks are notoriously dirty, so let's rinse them in water

a few times until the water runs clear.


Now into a sauté pan over medium high heat, throw a few glugs

of olive oil, and once it's shimmering let's throw in our leeks

I'll season with a little bit of salt, just to pull out some of the

water – the feta we're using will be plenty salty, so no other seasoning

is necessary

sauté those until they're soft, then let's remove them out to a bowl

crack in two eggs, then we can go in with the feta – About 200g

Now, to balance out the saltiness of the feta, and to create a smoother

texture add in 150g of a creamy cheese like ricotta or cottage cheese.

Mix that all together and we can set it aside while we form our crust


So now for the fun part. Let's press out our dough balls into 2mm thick

circles. They should be soft and elastic enough to stretch easily and the

oil should help them grip the counter.

Drizzle some melted butter on one round, and stack another one on top.

We're gonna repeat the process for all our pairs, to create laminated pastry

layers

Now, roll one of the layers out as thin as it'll go, making sure it's the size 

of a baking tray. drizzle some melted butter in the tray, and drape the dough

inside it. don't worry about tears –- we've got muiltiple layers to work with here.

Now, as you can see, once rolled out my sheets were way too big –- more than twice

the size of the tray –- but that's fine. I cut it in half, drizzled some more butter

and added the second half on top.

Now that our bottom crust is assembled, we can go in with the filling.

Spread the leek and cheese mixture around the bottom of the tray, keeping it fairly thin

I've got enough filling here for two pies.

Now we can cover this up with more dough. Roll the rest of the circles into thin sheets and

layer them on top. Don't worry about wrinkles, since they'll turn into flaky crispy crust

when baked. I'd even recommend pinching the dough a bit to form more folds.

Once again let's drizzle a little melted butter between layers, and cover that up 

with our final sheet of dough.

Now we can trim the excess using a knife or the edge of the dish, and pinch and fold

the edge of the crust to seal it.


Once you've got it looking how you want it, toss that in a preheated 200°C oven

for 30min or until golden brown.

I had excess dough and filling, so I made some experimental irregular pockets, but

feel free to just make another pie...