Italian-American Version

For the Parm
	1 Large Eggplant
	1 large block of low moisture mozzarella
	1 Cup Grated Parmigiano Reggiano
	2 eggs
	1 Cup flour
	1 Cup Italian Style Breadcrumbs

For the Sauce
	1 Can Crushed tomatoes
	1 small yellow onion, diced
	2 cloves garlic, minced
	1/2 tsp dried oregano
	1/2 tsp dried basil


Sauce Directions

	In a medium pot bring 30ml of olive oil to medium heat. 
	Once shimmering, add half a diced onion and two cloves of minced garlic.
	Sauté until the garlic is fragrant and the onions are translucent.
	Add 1/2tsp of dried oregano, 1/2tsp of dried basil, and 1/2tsp of crushed red pepper/chili flakes if you like a little heat.
	Mix in with the onions and allow the spices to toast for a couple minutes before adding a 28oz (850-ish ml) can of crushed tomatoes. 
	If crushed tomatoes aren't available in your region, you can manually crush whole canned tomatoes with a potato masher, fork, or by pulsing in a food processor.
	Alternatively, you can take the long route and blanche, peel and crush your own tomatoes.
		Bring a large pot of water to a boil and, working in batches, dunk 800g of plum, roma, or other tomatoes into the water for about a minute. 
		Plunge in an ice bath to stop cooking, then peel the skins. 
		Cutting a shallow cross in the bottom of each tomato before blanching will help with peeling.
		Crush the tomatoes with a potato masher, fork, or by pulsing them in a food processor until chunky.
	Rinse the can with about 150ml of water and pour that tomato water into the pot.
	Add a teaspoon of salt, as much black pepper as you want, and mix well.
	Bring the sauce to a simmer then reduce the heat to low, cover, and let cook for 30 to 45min, stirring occasionally.


Parm Directions

	Prep the Eggplant

		Peel a large (western style) eggplant and slice crosswise into thin rounds – about 4mm

	Fry the Eggplant
		
		Set up a dredging station — whisk 3 eggs in a bowl, pour flour into another bowl, and breadcrumbs into another.
		One by one, dip the eggplant slices in the flour, then the egg, then the breadcrumbs.
		Allow them to rest on a wire rack while working on the rest of the slices.
		Fill a sauté pan or skillet with 1cm of vegetable oil or light olive oil and bring to 175°C/350°F.
		Fry the eggplant in batches until golden brown on each side – about 1 minute per side, then remove to a wire rack over a tray or paper towels.

	Assemble the Parm

		Spoon a thin layer of tomato sauce into the bottom of a baking dish.
		Next, form a layer of fried eggplant on top of the sauce.
		Add another thin layer of sauce, (not too much or you'll have a wet, loose parm) followed by a layer of shredded or thinly sliced low-moisture mozzarella, and grated parmigiano reggiano.
			If low-moisture mozzarella isn't available where you are, fresh mozzarella is fine – just be sure to pat it dry thoroughly to remove the excess moisture. Alternatively you can use Oaxacan string cheese, mild provolone, queso fresco, or any mild, melty cheese.
			If parmigiano reggiano isn't available, use pre-grated parmesan cheese, asiago, cotija, pecorino romano, or an aged manchego. In a pinch, some crumbled feta might be able to replicate parmigiano's salty umami as well.  
		Continue placing layers in the same order (sauce, eggplant, cheeses) until all the eggplant is in, or until the tray is full.
		Top off with a little more sauce, mozzarella, and parm.

		Bake uncovered at 175°C/350°F until bubbling and crispy on top – about 30min.

Pro-tip: both recipes are excellent the next day and develop a more concentrated flavor, while also being much easier to slice.