Italian Verison

Ingredients

For the Parm
	1 Large Eggplant
	500g Fresh Mozzarella
	1 Cup Grated Parmigiano Reggiano
	50g Flour
	
For the Sauce
	1 Jar Tomato Puree
	1 Clove Garlic, peeled and crushed
	1 Sprig Fresh Basil

Directions

Sauce Directions
	To a saucepan over medium low heat, add 30ml of olive oil.
	Once shimmering, add one whole clove of peeled garlic that's been gently crushed with the side of a knife.
	Sauté until fragrant, then add 850ml/a 28oz can of tomato puree.
	If tomato puree isn't available in your region, you can puree whole canned tomatoes in a food processor.
	Alternatively, you can take the long route and blanche, peel and puree your own tomatoes.
		Bring a large pot of water to a boil and, working in batches, dunk 800g of plum, roma, or other tomatoes into the water for about a minute. 
		Plunge in an ice bath to stop cooking, then peel the skins. 
		Cutting a shallow cross in the bottom of each tomato before blanching will help with peeling.
		Puree the tomatoes in a food processor until smooth.
	Rinse the can/jar with about 150ml of water and pour that tomato water into the pot.
	Add a teaspoon of salt and mix well.
	Bring the sauce to a simmer then reduce the heat to low, cover, and let cook for 30, stirring occasionally.
	Add a sprig of fresh basil and continue to cook for 10 more minutes.


Parm Directions
	Prep the Eggplant

		Slice a large western style eggplant lengthwise into 4mm rounds.
		Layer the eggplant in a collander over a bowl or paper towel. Salt each layer with a pinch of salt.
		Weigh it down with a plate and leave it for an hour (it's a good use of time to make your sauce while you wait).
		This will draw out some of the moisture, which would otherwise make the eggplant bitter and hinder the frying process.

	Fry the Eggplant

		Rise the eggplant to remove the excess salt, then dry thorougly with paper towels.
		Optionally dredge with flour, then fry in 170°C/340°F vegetable oil in a sauté pan or skillet for about 5 minutes.
		Remove to a wire rack over a tray or some paper towels.

	Arrange the Parm

		Spoon a thin layer of tomato sauce into the bottom of a baking dish.
		Next, form a layer of fried eggplant on top of the sauce.
		Add a layer of thinly sliced, cubed, or torn fresh mozzarella, and grated parmigiano reggiano, then cover with a little sauce. Not too much or you'll have a wet, loose parm.
			(Note: pat mozzarella dry with paper towels after cutting it, otherwise it adds too much liquid to the parm)
			If parmigiano reggiano isn't available, use pre-grated parmesan cheese, asiago, cotija, pecorino romano, or an aged manchego. In a pinch, some crumbled feta might be able to replicate parmigiano's salty umami as well. 
		Continue placing layers in the same order (sauce, eggplant, cheeses), alternating the direction of the eggplant with each layer, until all the eggplant is in, or until the tray is full.
		Top off with a little more sauce, mozzarella, and parm.
		Bake uncovered at 200°C/400°F until bubbling and crispy on top – about 25min.

Pro-tip: both recipes are excellent the next day and develop a more concentrated flavor, while also being much easier to slice.


Sources:
https://ricette.giallozafferano.it/Parmigiana-di-melanzane.html
https://www.lacucinaitaliana.it/ricetta/contorni/la-ricetta-della-parmigiana-di-melanzane-quella-della-tradizione/
https://www.ricettedellanonna.net/melanzane_alla_parmigiana/
https://www.tavolartegusto.it/ricetta/parmigiana-di-melanzane-ricetta-melanzane-alla-parmigiana/
https://www.cookaround.com/ricetta/Parmigiana-di-melanzane-tipica-napoletana.html
https://www.cookaround.com/ricetta/Parmigiana-di-melanzane-alla-napoletana.html